If Jigsaw asked you to join his sadistic gang
of mutilators, what would you do?
In this highly requested How to Beat video,
we’ll follow Jigsaw’s 4th round of deplorables,
see if we can make better decisions, and ultimately
attempt to beat the traps in Saw 4.
Think you can do better, let us know in the
comments!
Enjoy these How to Beat videos, like and subscribe!
Have a movie you’d like
me
to cover, reply to
this comment!
We start out following 2 men in a mausoleum.
One has his eyes sewn shut, the other has
his mouth sewn shut.
Both are wearing collars that are chained
to a machine in the middle of the room.
On those collars are padlocks and keys.
Each person’s key unlocks the other person’s
padlock.
Naturally, the man that can’t see is aping
out because he can’t really assess what’s
going on, and the man with his mouth sewn
shut can’t communicate their situation effectively,
so the blinded man tries to yank out some
slack on the chain, which pulls a pin and
fires up the winch.
They both start getting slowly pulled into
the jaws of the winch, which, I can only surmise,
ends with the collar severing their spinal
chords.
The blind man doesn’t know anything other
than a machine started up and the slack on
his chain is getting pulled out.
He can’t know the actual mechanism in which
he will be destroyed.
I’m closing my eyes and trying to put myself
in his shoes, and I'm coming up with not much.
I think his fate is more in the muted man’s
hands.
What can the muted bro do?
What I wouldn’t do is try to pull against
the winch or try to hold onto something.
Unless you’re Dwayne Johnson, you aren’t
stopping it, especially with those 12 inch
biceps.
Probably the most effective thing to do is
pull the electrical wires and cut the power
cord with the mini axe the blind man threw
at him.
Nobody in these movies understands that machines
require power to operate.
The next best thing to do is jam the cogs
with either a belt or one of the other tools,
also a concept that nobody in Saw seems to
understand.
He could also try looping his chain around
an object like the crowbar or one of the pillars
which would obstruct the winches mouth, but
it’s not as reliable as jamming the cogs.
The tools would likely break or bend.
I don’t know how sharp that axe was, probably
not sharp, but he could try using it to cut
his mouth open so he can tell the blind man
to fucking chill so they can unlock each others
collars.
Now, I still wouldn’t trust the blind man
to not choke me out when I went for his key,
so you’d want to keep a shiv on deck just
in case.
The muted man goes straight for what would
be my last ditch move, bashing the blind man
over the head with a hammer to get the key.
The mute snags the key, unlocks the padlock,
then rips his mouth-stitches out screaming.
Wait, you’re telling me you could have physically
rage-ripped out your stitches this whole time,
and you only decided to do it now, after killing
the other guy, and not when your neck was
on the line and you could have saved another
person?
Wow, okay.
Across from him is another cassette and folder
that says ‘Keys to your freedom’.
Don’t ya hate it when that happens.
You win the game only to be thrust into another.
After Kerry’s disappearance, two FBI agents
received a key, a message which reads, “open
the door and you will find me”, and the
late Kerry’s location.
The SWAT team led by Rigg immediately raid’s
the building.
Upon entry, they come across a door rigged
with some kind of device, so they cut a hole
in the door and send in the iRobot to check
it out.
Rigg catches a glimpse of Kerry’s face on
the drone’s camera feed and runs through
the rigged door to try to save her.
He’s a bit late though.
Kerry’s chest was opened up and is now serving
a full course meal to the local rat population.
It’s a bad day to be the new guy.
Perez looks over Kerry’s trap and says that
Kerry had gotten the key but the padlock it
unlocked didn’t stop the trap from activating.
Both Troy and Kerry’s trap’s were executions,
leading them to believe that someone besides
Jigsaw is constructing these.
Hoffman thinks this was Amanda’s doing.
Strahm disagrees, saying that Amanda was 110
pounds soaking wet and Jigsaw was a bedridden
cancer patient.
I’m with Strahm, someone else is involved.
But who..
I should point out that Saw 4 picks up after
Kerry’s abduction in Saw 3.
Jeff’s game is just starting, and Amanda
and Jigsaw are still alive right now.
The reason they suspect Amanda, is because
Daniel, Eric’s son, told the police that
Amanda put him in the safe.
Another detective on the scene finds a bullet
casing lodged between Kerry’s body and the
contraption.
Hoffman tells him to run it for prints.
This bullet case doesn’t fit with the crime
scene.
There was no gun involved, no gunshot wound,
and no plausible way a bullet casing would
find its way into that crevice.
This reeks of planted evidence, which Jigsaw’s
no stranger to.
Rigg is back at the station reviewing evidence,
obsessed with finding a way to stop Jigsaw
from murdering everyone around him.
Hoffman tells him to go home and chill out.
That he should rest easy knowing that Eric’s
probably dead.
Perez and Strahm show up and tell Hoffman
to fuck off somewhere else while they work
their FBI magic.
Perez argues with Strahm about the other thing
they heard in Kerry’s message.
That two other officers were in danger.
Strahm tells her to keep it on the DL so as
to not spread panic.
Ah, the classic, don’t tell other people
they are in grave danger to ‘protect them’,
trope.
Nice.
Hoffman leaves with his teddy bear, and gets
abducted by pigmask while he’s filing some
paperwork.
Or so the good guys are led to believe.
Hoffman is actually Jigsaw’s other apprentice,
and was leaving to go abduct Jeff for their
next game.
There’s no reason for the police to have
suspected Hoffman yet.
Detective Fisk hits Perez and Strahm with
the news that they got a match on the bullet
casing, it’s Rigg.
Oh my god, Rigg was Jigsaw all along.
Well boys, looks like this case is closed.
Sadly, Strahm is actually semi-convinced that
Rigg is involved.
Apparently the FBI didn’t send their brightest.
What they should be wondering is why are they
being baited towards Rigg.
When Rigg gets home, he finds his wife packing
her bags.
She begs him to come with her and leave all
this behind, but Rigg just can’t let go.
Later that night after Tracy leaves, Rigg
hears a door open.
Thinking it might be Tracy, he calls out her
name and starts wandering the house trying
to find her.
The silence would be worrying.
Tracy wouldn’t be sneaking into the house
like that.
Rigg needs to grab his pistol, retreat into
his room, lock the door, and dial 911.
As a SWAT team commander, he should know not
to be taking unnecessary risks, especially
when multiple detectives have been abducted
and murdered recently.
If Strahm had called up Rigg and let him know
that he might be in danger, Rigg might be
a little more tactical about this situation.
But no, we wouldn’t want to risk Rigg getting
anxious.
I’m not sure tackling a jacked SWAT commando
through tarp while obstructing your own vision
with a pig mask was the best idea.
We later find out that Rigg’s abductor was
Art Blank, the man who won the Mausoleum trap.
He was a former business partner of John’s
that’s now being forced to orchestrate Rigg’s
game like Zep in Saw 1.
If he refuses, the spine cutter he’s wearing
will cut his spine..
Art Blank had weeks of freedom to prepare
all these games, and his spine cutter is fairly
rudimentary.
It would be pretty easy for Art to foil the
spine cutter by jamming the pincers.
Then he could take his game’s instructions
to the police, the Gideon Meat Packing plant
would be raided, and the events in Saw 3 would
have been prevented.
Hoffman would likely have been found as Jigsaw’s
rat when the teddy bear he was holding was
connected with Jeff’s traps.
Maybe team Jigsaw captured and threatened
his family, but if that was the case why would
they need the spine cutter.
Alas, Art’s a good little boy and carries
out his orders without thoroughly assessing
his options.
Rigg wakes up in the tub with a question mark
on the bathroom door, and when he opens it
a pin get’s pulled and the tv turns on with
Jigsaw’s message.
Oh now you grab your gun.
Not when you heard mysterious noises in your
empty home after your colleagues started dropping
like flies.
Rigg is undoubtedly going to hard charge right
into this trap, but I think he has reason
not to.
He witnessed first-hand the simplicity of
Eric’s game, and how all Eric had to do
was sit tight.
Eric and Rigg’s games are actually very
similar in nature.
He also witnessed what happened to Kerry,
and how it was her obsession that attracted
Jigsaw’s attention.
He should know that Jigsaw’s wording is
chosen carefully, and that a correction in
typical behavior is necessary.
Rigg just needs to hit Tracy up and have a
romantic evening with her.
Rigg walks down his hallway filled with random
pictures of Eric and some broad.
The picture trail leads him to a room with
a stranger in a pigmask tied to a torture
chair, and Jigsaw pops up on
the tele again.
Just walk away bro.
You have the unique position of knowing how
Jigsaw operates these games, and actually
being in a winnable trap.
Don’t be an unreflective dumbass like Eric.
Sigh.
God damnit.
People really need to start checking for pin
triggers.
Rigg has tripped like three of them now.
Looks like she has 60 seconds until this machine
scalps her.
Easy enough, checking the cupboard for knives
that could be used to cut her hair free is
the obvious first move.
Jigsaw removed all the knives though.
Okay, stuff some shit into the cogs.
Done.
Rigg seems thoroughly overwhelmed by all the
crude machinery, so he falls back on his special
weapons and tactics training.
Unfortunately, this only temporarily halts
it.
My next suggestion was going to be to put
a bullet through her hair braid, but since
you expended all your ammo unsuccessfully
shooting at the most robust areas of the machine,
throwing a stick in the cogs is your next
best option.
Brenda cries out that the combination to the
lock is in the gears.
Who the fuck cares or has time to communicate
and figure out a combination.
And why didn’t you mention this earlier
before half your face was getting ripped off.
Rigg stupidly thinks that trying to put together
the numbers in the circulating gears is a
good idea.
Wow, you got the number 6, just a few more
rounds to get the other numbers and you can
screw with the combination lock.
Because you have time for that.
All things considered, she got off pretty
lightly.
I’m sure they can stitch her scalp back
on and do some plastic surgery.
Of course, she’d be way more fine if Rigg
wasn’t an idiot.
When Rigg isn’t looking Brenda grabs a knife
under the tv and attacks him.
After Rigg beats the shit out of her he plays
the cassette taped to her hand.
It’s for Brenda.
It tells her that a cop will try to save her,
and if he is successful, then her game begins.
It tells her that the cop will use the incriminating
photos all over the walls to sentence her
for her pimping crimes, and that the only
way to stop him is taped underneath the T.V.
Realistically, Brenda didn’t know that Rigg
trying to help her would start up the scalper.
Warning him wasn’t possible.
She also didn’t know it was a knife under
the T.V. until she checked, so telling Rigg
about it wasn’t possible either.
Brenda also had no way of knowing that Rigg
was too preoccupied to arrest her.
Still, pimping doesn’t carry that steep
of a sentence.
A few years or so.
Attempting to murder Rigg easily could have
led to her death, and a far worse prison sentence.
She shouldn’t have attacked him and forced
him to deal the final blow.
Riggs runs down the hallways because he has
pressing matters.
Eric and all.
He finds a box with 2 keys and a note saying
‘one saves a life, one takes it away’.
One of the keys is for Alexander motel room
number 261.
With the scene secure, now would be a good
time to call for some police backup and let
them know what's up.
There’s literally a phone right at the end
of the hallway next to the hotel room door
your next test is in.
I see no reason why he can’t make a call.
While Rigg is off making bad decisions, the
FBI is hot on his tail.
They got reports of shots fired at his apartment
and went to investigate.
Rigg is long gone, but Brenda’s lifeless
body is still there.
I don’t think scalping someone would kill
them.
Rigg must have a mean right hook.
The evidence is pointing towards Rigg being
involved in a game to save Hoffman and Eric,
but they don’t have much to go off of.
Rigg took the apartment key, which was the
only clue for where his next test was.
Strahm notices the pictures of John’s hot
ass ex, Jill Tuck, and decides to have a chat
with her to see if she knows anything.
For as smart as Strahm thinks he is, this
was a dumb move.
You’re just being led around by Jigsaw,
which has never worked out well.
Jill’s interrogation reveals some irrelevant
backstory about why Jigsaw is the way he is.
Back when John and Jill were having a baby,
a drug addict at her clinic mugged her and
caused her to have a miscarriage.
After which John became depressed, was diagnosed
with cancer, and tried to kill himself.
It was a bad month for John.
None of this is really helping though.
Rigg shows up to the Alexander motel and checks
in.
Inside his room is a box with some hair sticking
out and a picture of his wife on it saying,
‘she needed you’.
Looks like Tracy didn’t make it to her mom’s
house.
Oh, thank god, it’s just a pigmask with
a cassette player.
How many cassette players does Jigsaw have,
god damn.
The cops just need to stake out a radio shack
and tail whoever is bulk buying.
I’m gonna go ahead and say ignore this one.
Rigg could open the adjacent door, find the
next clue, and avoid this whole mess.
Rigg hasn’t learned his lesson.
He calls Ivan up for room service and forces
him into the trap room at gunpoint.
Inside there’s substantial photo and video
proof of the man’s ill deeds.
On the drink stand is a note for Rigg and
yet another cassette player.
Seriously, can we start monitoring who's buying
all these in
the year 2007.
I don’t think it really matters if he kills
this man or not.
Rigg decides to assume the role of Jigsaw
just this once, and forces the sick fuck to
strap in to the bed’s shackles.
On the nightstand there is a note for Rigg,
something about the school where it all began,
as well as another recorder for Ivan.
Basically, he either sickles his eyes or has
his limbs ripped off in 60 seconds.
Wouldn’t it make more sense for him to have
to choose between his Johnson or his eyes?
Maybe that would be too much..
Without Rigg in the room, Ivan can cheat the
trap if possible.
The sickles will drop on a fixed path to his
eyes.
His head is in a horizontal vice, but he should
still be able to tilt his head up or down
the inch he needs to have the sickle hit his
skull instead.
The head tilt is an advanced move that Ivan
can’t seem to comprehend, so he drops the
first sickle straight into his eyeball.
Now it’s too late to perform the head-tilt.
The sickle embedded in his facial orifice
kind of fixes his head in place.
He’s too much of a bitch to drop the second
sickle in time, and get’s de-limbed.
Or I should say, dis-armed.
Rigg takes a second look at that note and
has a flashback to when he beat the hell out
of a student's dad for abusing her at home.
The father’s lawyer, Art Blank, tried to
sue them, but Hoffman helped get Rigg off
the hook.
Art was pretty pissed about it, and threatened
them.
Clearly the number one suspect.
I still don’t know why Rigg isn’t calling
this in.
Rigg goes back to the school and finds that
same kid’s abusive parents nailed together.
I also want to point out that it is flower
power week.
I think Rigg needs to take a moment to celebrate
peace, passive resistance, and nonviolence
before he condemns more lives in his hasty
pursuit of justice.
While Rigg is clocking in for his next Jigsaw
lesson, Strahm and Perez get called to the
bloodbath he left in the apartment room.
Again, Rigg took the only clue as to the next
location.
Strahm and Perez ascertain that the room was
rented by Art Blank for the past 6 days, a
criminal defense lawyer and Jigsaw’s former
business partner who went missing two weeks
ago.
Art Blank owned several properties, one of
them a couple blocks away.
Sweet, let's check it out because Jigsaw wouldn’t
anticipate that 4D chess move.
In the basement of the property they find
two files left for them on a table.
Written on the first one was the message "Open
the door and you will find me", while the
second message warned them: "You are in danger
of getting too close... step back."
This should be your cue to turn your badge
in.
Jigsaw legitimately planned this moment 10
moves out, and you both walked his path to
the T. When someone is exercising that level
of omnipotence over you, continuing to assault
them is going to get you hurt.
Back at the school Rigg is checking out the
couple's situation.
The woman wakes up screaming that she had
won, and has a PTSD flashback to when the
game started and she hit play on the cassette.
So the rods that shish kebab them together
are puncturing vital areas in her husband's
body, and non-vital areas in hers.
Technically, she won’t bleed out if she
leaves the rods in.
Pulling them out will cause her to bleed out.
Knowing how her husband is a selfish, abusive
piece of shit who will try to kill her to
save himself, she needs to get yanking asap.
The trick is to pull out the most vital rods
first so he quickly loses consciousness from
blood loss.
This would be the ones in the neck areas,
leg area, and torso area.
As for the husband, well, he heard the message
too.
Preventing her from pulling the rods out is
a futile game of whack a mole.
She can select any of the rods and start tugging,
and he has to react.
Eventually she will pull them out, little
by little.
What he needs to do is reach back and choke
her out.
If he isn’t flexible enough for this, then
he should pull the rod out from his arm and
use it to stab her through the neck.
Like reverse spearing.
The husband doesn’t react quickly enough.
The second rod the wife pulled out was the
one through his neck, which was pretty much
game over for him.
She pulls most of the rods, but not all.
That’s when Rigg finds her and the cassette
player next to her.
Again, like with Ivan, it doesn’t really
matter what he does right now.
These are merely lessons, not tests for him.
There is no consequence for these lessons.
He could shoot her in the head or unbuckle
her, wouldn’t make a difference.
What will make a difference, is if he learns
to stop obsessing about saving everyone at
all costs.
Rigg pretty much ignores everything but the
last part about the location of his next test.
This dude is really confused right now.
He leaves Morgan to sort out her own shit,
as Jigsaw wanted, then froths over the location
of the next test so he can swoop in to rescue
Eric, which is completely missing the point.
If anything, Rigg should have done the opposite.
He should have helped Morgan get free since
there was no consequence for it, then realized
that Jigsaw wanted him to let go of Eric.
I mean shit, Rigg gave her the key to her
padlock, put his coat around her, and pulled
the fire alarm so help would be on the way.
He literally helped her in every way except
yanking the last rod.
With how confused Rigg is, it’s not looking
good for Eric.
The clue Rigg finds is a picture of his wife
that says, ‘Go Home’, with the G discolored.
Rigg somehow puts together the G from this
picture, the G on Brenda’s knife, the G
on Ivan’s shackle, and the G in the name
of John Kramer’s former business.
And that all this means that Eric must be
at that factory.
Wait wait wait.
You’re telling me the whole time they knew
about Jigsaw, they never once thought that
maybe they should monitor the properties he
owns and his business associates.
Art Blank literally set up shop in Jigsaw’s
factory without anyone noticing.
The incompetence is staggering.
Rigg leaves for his final test, while Strahm
and Perez play catch up in his wake, because
phone’s are difficult to use apparently.
They get called to the school after the firefighters
showed up and saw the massacre.
The forensics team can’t discern what is
a weapon and what isn't and dusts the trigger
on a pneumatic bolt gun a bit too hard.
That was just dumb.
There is no reason why this weapon shouldn’t
have been secured before 20 detectives started
investigating the room.
And is that really how the spike trap was
prepared?
Seems awfully difficult to line up the shots
so the rod went through in the exact right
spot.
Perez get’s a call.
Apparently Brenda, Ivan, and this couple were
all represented by the same Art Blank that
rented the hotel room and owned the building
they found their folders in.
He was the criminal defense lawyer that got
them all off the hook for their crimes.
And as a bonus, they also learn that he was
Jill Tuck’s lawyer and John Kramer’s former
business partner.
This man is connected.
They get the location of the other property
Art owns, and it’s co-owned by Jill Tuck.
Funny thing is, it’s this school.
Why were all Jill Tuck’s properties not
being monitored already.
Why weren’t all John Kramer’s properties
being monitored in addition to the abandoned
buildings and properties that he built.
Strahm and Perez decide to check out the rest
of the building, and come across a room with
Jigsaw’s ventriloquist doll in the middle
surrounded by candles.
The candles look recently lit with minimal
wax drippage.
Someone was here very recently.
I think they should break out the iRobot again.
Who knows what Jigsaw has in store for them.
Jill, just walks up to it and hit’s play.
It says that Strahm will soon take the life
of an innocent man, and warns Perez that her
next move is critical.
The voice gets muffled, like the battery was
dying, so Perez puts her ear up to it.
I think Jigsaw wants you to fuck off and let
Rigg play his game.
I gotta say, the candles were a pretty sly
way of making her stand right in front of
the blast zone.
Perez get’s ushered to a hospital and Strahm
heads back to interrogate Jill to get clues
as to where Rigg’s final game is taking
place.
Jill takes him on another time wasting trip
down memory lane.
Cecil, the man responsible for Jill’s miscarriage,
was John’s first victim.
John tracked him through a festival crowd,
donned the OG pig mask, and chloroformed him.
Chloroforming someone with a soaked rag actually
takes a few minutes to render them unconscious.
Jigsaw obviously learned from his ways and
started doing tranquilizer injections instead.
Cecil wakes up strapped to a chair.
When he sees John he pleads for mercy.
Whenever you find yourself in a situation
and say, give me time to explain, and your
captor responds saying, ‘time is an illusion’,
you’re fucked.
Especially when they place a box of knives
over your face and tell you it’s a tool
to free your soul.
John tell’s Cecil that in order to stay
alive, his face has to match the ugliness
of his soul.
He has to lean forward into the knives in
order to hit the lever in front of him which
will release his arm and leg restraints.
His arms and legs are bound with blades jutting
up into his wrists and feet, so any movement
of his limbs will cause massive blood loss.
There’s honestly not much Cecil can do here
since John is standing over him watching.
He’s not going to let Cecil foil his contraption.
So the question now is, do you go slow or
fast?
I’d say slow, shit, I don’t know.
Cecil does what is required and puts face
to blades.
Cecil gets free and understandably wants to
attack John, but he doesn’t realize that
he’s the dumb bull and John is the bull
fighter.
All this is basically pointless banter, and
Strahm eventually decides to check out one
of John’s first buildings, the Gideon Meat
Packing Plant, which was named after Jill’s
prematurely terminated baby.
Again, why was this building not already being
monitored.
Jigsaw’s whole operation could have easily
been compromised before anyone died in Saw
3 and 4.
Jesus Christ.
Like an idiot, Strahm rolls on the factory
by himself.
He did call backup, so he did better than
Eric, but you’d think by now the cops would
have learned to not carelessly assault Jigsaw’s
locations.
While all this has been going down, Eric has
been hanging out with Hoffman in a warehouse.
Eric is hog-chained from the ceiling and ground,
and in his weakened and delirious state from
being held captive for 6 months, pulling a
Riddick level escape is out of the question.
Hoffman can’t do much either, not that he’d
want to.
He orchestrated all this after all.
While Art was out prepping Rigg’s traps,
Hoffman sedated and strung up Eric, then hit
himself in the face and tied himself to the
chair which wasn’t actually hooked up to
the electricity.
Art Blank arrives and stops Eric from trying
to hang himself and prematurely ending Rigg’s
game before he gets there.
I’m surmising that Art needs to keep both
of them alive until Rigg shows or no-shows,
at which point he can press the button on
a device, which will deactivate all of their
traps.
I still think Art can disarm his spine cutter
and foil the game pretty easily.
Art’s next instructed move is to hand Eric
the gun with a single bullet in it.
Live or die, he makes the choice.
They all look up and see the giant ice blocks
held captive above Eric by a wire attached
to the main entrance.
Doesn’t take a genius to realize that if
the door is opened by Rigg, Eric will get
iced.
Besides disarming his device, Art can’t
alter the trap because his spine will be remotely
sliced in half.
As far as what Eric should do?
Brace for impact baby.
But in all seriousness, he should shoot at
whoever tries to enter that door.
Shooting the chain he’s strung up by won’t
work.
Demolition Ranch proved this.
Rigg arrives at the factory and finds a note
saying, ‘Patience, remember who you are
saving.
Time is on your side.’
Rigg, last chance, remember what Eric did
wrong, don’t repeat the same mistake.
Just before the timer runs out, Rigg busts
the door open.
Art tried to yell at him to stop, and couldn’t
have known Rigg had a gun.
He tries to tell Rigg that Jigsaw was testing
him, and his final move as Jigsaw instructed,
was to hand Rigg his final cassette tape.
He could have been a bit more overt and open
about what he was reaching for.
Rigg thought he was going for a gun and dome
shotted him.
While Rigg plays the message basically telling
him how he fucked up, Hoffman releases himself
from his restraints and starts walking out
the door.
Rigg turns around, realizing that Hoffman
was Jigsaw’s rat, shoots him in the back.
That actually didn’t happen, because Hoffman
somehow knew that Rigg was out of ammo and
would pass out within seconds of him saying,
‘game over’.
Hoffman also somehow knew that Eric wouldn’t
off himself earlier instead of shooting Rigg,
in which case Rigg would be in full health
and Hoffman would be caught in his lie.
Strahm somehow doesn’t enter the same way
that Rigg did, and get’s led down a different
path.
He hears the gunshots of Amanda killing Lynn,
and Jeff killing Amanda, and the noise of
Jeff sawing off Jigsaw’s head.
When Strahm enters the sick room and see’s
Jeff, Jeff tries to kill him, thinking that
Strahm was also in on his game.
Strahm is the quicker draw though.
Hoffman slams the door shut behind Strahm
and locks him inside.
I guess that’s game over for Strahm, at
least for now.
Hoffman locking Strahm up is entirely hinged
on him not having Perez or SWAT team backup,
which seems unlikely.
It’s also hinged upon Jeff losing his game
and getting killed by Strahm.
If Strahm brought police backup, which would
have been easy because he came from the school
where tons of cops were with him, then they
would have been able to secure the scene and
Hoffman would be forced to continue acting
like a victim.
This wouldn’t really work well, because
based on the tapes and the traps setup, the
police would uncover that Hoffman was never
in any danger and had managed to get out of
his restraints when everyone else was dead,
which is incredibly suspicious.
Likewise, if Rigg was a few seconds late,
Art, Rigg, and Eric wouldn’t have died,
and Hoffman would be ousted as the accomplice
after figuring out his trap was fake.
Now that I think of it, Strahm might have
actually been intended to trip Eric’s trap
or kill Rigg in the process.
Hence, ‘Killing an innocent man’.
Why have Strahm interfere with Jeff’s secondary
game of finding his daughter?
Far after these events, John Kramer’s body
was recovered by police and an autopsy performed.
Inside his stomach is the wax coated cassette
tape that Jigsaw swallowed before Jeff executed
him.
The medical examiner calls Detective Hoffman
to take a look, and the movie ends with him
playing Jigsaw’s final message.
Let’s recap the pivotal points where different
decisions could have altered who lived and
died.
The abandoned Gideon Meat Packing plant was
Jigsaw’s first property he built and was
in the news.
Monitoring all of Jigsaw’s owned or built
properties that were abandoned pretty much
saves all the victims and leads to the death
or incarceration of Jigsaw, Amanda, and Hoffman.
Art Blank could have disarmed his spine cutter
and brought the police in on Jigsaw’s game
before it even started.
Art was a criminal defense lawyer and had
originally gotten all of his victims off the
hook.
There’s no reason to suspect he’d want
to be involved in their deaths.
Rigg intimately witnessed the mistakes that
Eric and Kerry made, which had led to their
downfall.
He should have known that repeating them was
foolish.
But he wouldn’t have even been in this position
had the cops monitored Jigsaw’s properties
or if Art disarmed his trap.
All said and done, I think we could have beat
the traps from Saw 4.
Thanks for watching, and remember, if you’re
dealing with a Jigsaw trap, carefully check
everything for pin triggers.